.TH CPU_PATTERN 4 2026-03-31 Lustre "Lustre Kernel Interfaces"
.SH NAME
cpu_pattern \- CPU partitions pattern
cpu_npartitions \- number of CPU partitions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lctl get_param cpu_pattern"
.SY "lctl get_param cpu_npartitions"
.YS
.SS PROPERTIES
.TP
.RB Access Permissions
.br
.BR 444 " | " -r--r--r--
.TP
.B Scope
.br
Global
.TP
.B Config
.br
Always present
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B cpu_pattern
and
.B cpu_npartitions
are module options used to configure the Lustre CPU Partition Table (CPT),
which is a virtual grouping of CPU cores that controls where Lustre runs
service threads in each running system.
The CPT configuration can (and should) be different for different
client and server CPU platforms, though need not be expicitly set.
In many cases, the automatic CPT configuration provides adequate performance,
but for optimal performance across a large number of nodes with similar
hardware, it may be desirable to explicitly specify the CPT configuration.
.PP
The CPU partition numbering always starts from 0 and is sequential up
to the maximum partition number.
There are two modes for CPT configuration, namely
.B NUMA
mode configures the CPT with the same core layout as the NUMA nodes, and
.B SMP
mode configures the CPT with one partition for every 4 cores in the system.
.PP
These module options can
.B only
be set during module initialization using lines of the form:
.RS
.EX
.BI "options libcfs cpu_npartitions=" NUM_PARTITIONS
.BI "options libcfs cpu_pattern=""" CPU_PATTERN """"
.EE
.RE
in the
.BR /etc/modprobe.d/lustre.conf
file, see
.BR modprobe.d (5)
for details on setting module options.
.PP
The resulting CPT core mappings can be read from the
.B cpu_parition_table
after the
.B libcfs
module has been loaded.
.PP
The simplest form of CPT configuration is to just set the number of partitions:
.TP
.BI cpu_npartitions= NUM_PARTITIONS
All cores will be evenly distributed across the specified number of partitions.
This is overridden by the
.B cpu_pattern="N"
option, but can otherwise be combined with other patterns.
.PP
An administrator can explicitly map CPU cores into specific partitions with
different behaviors by setting
.I CPU_PATTERN
according to the following templates.
.TP
.BI "cpu_pattern=""0[" CORE0 , CORE1 ", ...] 1[" CORE2 , CORE3 ", ...] ..."""
This pattern allows you to specify a set of CPU cores for each partition.
The cores do not need to be contiguous and need not list all available cores.
However, cores in a single CPT should be in the same NUMA node, according to
.BR numactl (8) " -s"
in order to efficiently share memory pages and tasks between threads.
.TP
.BI "cpu_pattern=""N 0[" NODE0 , NODE1 ", ...] 1[" NODE2 , NODE3 ", ...] ..."""
This pattern allows you to specify a set of NUMA nodes for each partition.
The nodes do not have to be contiguous and need not contain all available nodes.
All CPU cores in the respective NUMA nodes will be mapped into those CPTs.
.TP
.BI "cpu_pattern=""C[" INDEX0 , INDEX1 ", ...]"""
This pattern allows you to exclude a set of cores from each partition.
The CPT is first initialized, using
.BR cpu_npartitions ,
NUMA nodes, or the default layout.
Then cores are removed from each partition that match the specified
.IR INDEX
numbers, which are CPU core numbers relative to the start of each NUMA node.
.TP
.BI "cpu_pattern=""X[" CORE0 , CORE1 ", ...]"""
This pattern allows you to exclude a set of cores from the CPT that they
belong to. The CPT is first initialized, using
.BR cpu_npartitions
, NUMA nodes, or the default layout.
Then the absolute CPU cores given by each
.I CORE
number are removed from their respective CPT.
.SH MODULES
This parameter is in the following modules:
.EX
.B cpu_pattern
.EE
.SH EXAMPLES
The default pattern for the CPT will put 4 cores in each partitions:
.RS
.EX
.B options libcfs cpu_pattern=
.RB # " lctl get_param cpu_partition_table"
cpu_partition_table=
0	: 0 1 2 3
1	: 4 5 6 7
2	: 8 9 10 11
3	: 12 13 14 15
.EE
.RE
The modifying the partition count for the CPT will split the cores as evenly
as possible:
.RS
.EX
.B options libcfs cpu_npartitions=3
.RB # " lctl get_param cpu_partition_table"
cpu_partition_table=
0	: 0 1 2 3 4 5
1	: 6 7 8 9 10
2	: 11 12 13 14 15
.EE
.RE
Use a default mapping of the CPT to the NUMA node layout that has 4 nodes:
.RS
.EX
.B options libcfs cpu_pattern=N
.RB # " lctl get_param cpu_partition_table"
cpu_partition_table=
0	: 0 1 2 3
1	: 4 5 6 7
2	: 8 9 10 11
3	: 12 13 14 15
.EE
.RE
Put several NUMA nodes into one partition:
.RS
.EX
.B options libcfs cpu_pattern=N 0[0,1] 1[2-3]
.RB # " lctl get_param cpu_partition_table"
cpu_partition_table=
0	: 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
1	: 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
.EE
.RE
Exclude the first two cores from each partition:
.RS
.EX
.B options libcfs cpu_pattern=C[0,1]
.RB # " lctl get_param cpu_partition_table"
cpu_partition_table=
0	: 2 3
1	: 6 7
2	: 10 11
3	: 14 15
.EE
.RE
Exclude core 0 to reserve it for non-Lustre tasks:
.RS
.EX
.B options libcfs cpu_pattern=X[0]
.B options libcfs cpu_npartitions=3
.RB # " lctl get_param cpu_partition_table"
cpu_partition_table=
0	: 1 2 3 4 5
1	: 6 7 8 9 10
2	: 11 12 13 14 15
.EE
.RE
.SH AVAILABILITY
.B cpu_pattern
is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 2.10.0.
.\" commit v2_9_52_0-6-gdef25e9c7e
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cpu_partition_distance (4),
.BR cpu_partition_table (4),
.BR modprobe.d (5),
.BR numa (7),
.BR lctl-get_param (8),
.BR numactl (8)
