.TH OSD-ZFS.FZAP_BLOCKSHIFT 4 2026-03-20 "Lustre" "Lustre Tunable"
.SH NAME
osd-zfs.fzap_blockshift \- control ZFS OSD FatZAP leaf block size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY "lctl set_param"
.BI osd-zfs. FSNAME -*.fzap_blockshift= SHIFT_BITS
.YS
.SY "lctl get_param"
.BI osd-zfs. FSNAME -*.fzap_blockshift
.YS
.SS PROPERTIES
.TP
.B Access Permissions
.br
.BR 644 | -rw-r--r--
.TP
.B Scope
.br
Per-MDT and OST device.
.TP
.B Config
.br
.B osd-zfs.*.fzap_blockshift
is always present for MDT and OST devices.
.TP
.B Default
.br
.RB fzap_blockshift= 13
.TP
.B Valid Range
.br
.RB fzap_blockshift= 9
.br
.RB fzap_blockshift= 24
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B fzap_blockshift
controls the leaf block size used when creating ZFS FatZAP objects
(directories, OI tables, and indexes) on a per-OSD basis.
This can be useful to optimize the directory performance to match
the ZFS VDEV geometry and underlying storage technology.
.PP
.I SHIFT_BITS
is the number of bits to shift, not the block size in bytes.
For example, to use 8KiB blocks, set
.I SHIFT_BITS
to 13 (2^13 = 8192), not 8192 or 8K.
.PP
The value of 13 or 14 (8K or 16K blocks) provides a reasonable middle ground
for most pool layouts. Smaller values can reduce per-directory overhead
but may increase parity overhead depending on the pool topology.
.SS POOL TOPOLOGY CONSIDERATIONS
The optimal value for
.B fzap_blockshift
depends heavily on the pool layout or geometry:
.TP
.B Mirror (RAID10) pool:
For pools configured as collections of mirrors (RAID10), smaller
blockshift values are generally better. Smaller blocks reduce
per-directory space overhead without significant parity penalties
since mirrors do not have parity overhead per block.
.TP
.B Pool with Special Devices:
For pools with a special device configured as a mirror, smaller
blockshift values are generally better. The special device absorbs
small random metadata writes efficiently, eliminating the dRAID
stripe padding penalty.
.TP
.B RAIDZ or dRAID pool:
For pools using RAIDZ or dRAID VDEVs, the optimal blockshift should be
chosen to match or exceed the effective stripe width of the VDEV to
avoid partial stripe writes.
.PP
To determine the ashift and VDEV layout of your pool:
.PP
.B   zdb -C <poolname> | grep -E 'ashift|type|nparity|ndata'
.PP
or:
.PP
.B   zpool status -v <poolname>
.TP
.B Other pool layouts:
The default value (13) is suitable for most pool layouts.
.SH NOTES
This tunable affects all newly created ZAP objects on the OSD instance.
Existing ZAP objects are not affected.
.PP
Valid values range from
.B SPA_MINBLOCKSHIFT (9 = 512B)
to
.B SPA_MAXBLOCKSHIFT (24 = 16MiB).
The actual value depends on the pool's ashift setting,
which can be verified with:
.PP
.B zdb -e -C <poolname> | grep -i ashift
.SH MODULES
This parameter is present in the following modules:
.B osd-zfs.*.fzap_blockshift
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Set fzap_blockshift to 14 (16KiB) for all local ZFS OSDs:
.EX
.RB oss# " lctl set_param osd-zfs.*.fzap_blockshift=14"
.EE
.PP
Set fzap_blockshift to 16 (64KiB) for a specific OST:
.EX
.RB oss# " lctl set_param osd-zfs.testfs-OST0000.fzap_blockshift=16"
.EE
.PP
Permanently set fzap_blockshift to 12 (4KiB) for all MDTs in a filesystem:
.EX
.RB mds# " lctl set_param -P osd-zfs.testfs-MDT*.fzap_blockshift=12"
.EE
.TP
Permanently set fzap_blockshift across reboots for all ZFS OSTs in a filesystem:
.EX
.RB mgs# " lctl set_param -P osd-zfs.testfs-OST*.fzap_blockshift=15"
.EE
.TP
Read the current value of all local ZFS OSDs:
.EX
.RB oss# " lctl get_param osd-zfs.*.fzap_blockshift"
.EE
.SH AVAILABILITY
The
.B fzap_blockshift
parameter is part of the
.BR lustre (7)
filesystem package since release 2.18.0.
.\" Added in commit v2_17_51-27-gab735e9962
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR zfs (4),
.BR lustre (7),
.BR lctl (8),
.BR lctl-get_param (8),
.BR lctl-set_param (8),
.BR zpool (8)
