.TH LFS-LADVISE 1 2015-11-30 "Lustre" "Lustre Utilities"
.SH NAME
lfs ladvise \- give file access advices or hints to server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B lfs ladvise [--advice|-a ADVICE ] [--background|-b]
        \fB[--start|-s START[kMGT]]
        \fB{[--end|-e END[kMGT]] | [--length|-l LENGTH[kMGT]]}
        \fB{[--mode|-m MODE] | [--unset|-u]}
        \fB<FILE> ...\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Give file access advices or hints to Lustre server side, usually OSS. This lfs
utility is simlar to Linux fadvise() system call, except it can forward the
advices from Lustre clients to servers.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-advice\fR=\fIADVICE\fR
Give advice or hint of type \fIADVICE\fR.
.TP
\fBlockahead\fR to request a lock on a specified extent of a file
\fBlocknoexpand\fR to disable server side lock expansion for a file
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-background
Enable the advices to be sent and handled asynchronously.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-start\fR=\fISTART_OFFSET\fR
File range starts from \fISTART_OFFSET\fR.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-end\fR=\fIEND_OFFSET\fR
File range ends at (not including) \fIEND_OFFSET\fR.
This option may not be specified at the same time as the -l option.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-length\fR=\fILENGTH\fR
File range has length of \fILENGTH\fR. This option may not be specified at the
same time as the -e option.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mode\fR=\fIMODE\fR
Specify the lock \fIMODE\fR. This option is only valid with lockahead
advice.  Valid modes are: READ, WRITE
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-unset\fR=\fIUNSET\fR
Unset the previous advice.  Currently only valid with locknoexpand advice.
.SH NOTE
.PP
Typically, the "lfs ladvise" forwards the advice to Lustre servers without
guaranteeing what and when servers will react to the advice. Actions may or
may not triggered when the advices are recieved, depending on the type of the
advice as well as the real-time decision of the affected server-side
components.

A typical usage of ladvise is to enable applications and users with external
knowledge to intervene in server-side cache management. For example, if a
bunch of different clients are doing small random reads of a file, prefetching
pages into OSS cache with big linear reads before the random IO is a net
benefit. Fetching all that data into each client cache with fadvise() may not
be, due to much more data being sent to the client.

The main difference between Linux fadvise() system call and ladvise is that
fadvise() is only a client side mechanism that does not pass the advice to the
filesystem, while ladvise can send advices or hints to Lustre server sides.

.B $ lfs ladvise -a lockahead -s 0 -e 1048576 -m READ /mnt/lustre/file1
Request a read lock on the first 1 MiB of /mnt/lustre/file1.
.B $ $ lfs ladvise -a lockahead -s 0 -e 4096 -m WRITE ./file1
Request a write lock on the first 4KiB of /mnt/lustre/file1.
.B $ $ lfs ladvise -a locknoexpand ./file1
Set disable lock expansion on ./file1
.B $ $ lfs ladvise -a locknoexpand -u ./file1
Unset disable lock expansion on ./file1
.SH AVAILABILITY
The lfs ladvise command is part of the Lustre filesystem.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs (1),
.BR fadvise (2),
.BR llapi_ladvise (3),
.BR lustre (7)
