.TH LFS-SETDIRSTRIPE 1 2014-06-08 "Lustre" "Lustre Utilities"
.SH NAME
lfs setdirstripe, mkdir \- set striping pattern of a directory.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lfs setdirstripe
[\fIOPTION\fR]... \fIDIR\fR...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Create a remote directory on a specified mdt. This lfs utility
is similar to
.B lfs setstripe
, but is used to create remote directories.
.B lfs mkdir
is an alias for this command.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-index\fR=\fIMDT_INDEX\fR
Create a remote directory on MDT whose index is
.I MDT_INDEX.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-mode\fR=\fIMODE\fR
Set the file access mode of the new directory to the specified
numeric value (typically octal) as specified in
.BR chmod (1),
and is not affected by the current
.BR umask (1p).
.SH NOTE
.PP
The "lfs setdirstripe" command is only executable by root unless
"mdt.*.enable_remote_dir_gid" is set via "lctl set_param" to be either a
non-zero GID to limit it to a single group (e.g. "operator" or "admin"),
or "-1" to allow any group to create remote directories.

The root of the file system is on MDT0000, and directories and files inherit the
MDT of their parent directory unless a different MDT is specified with this
command.

By default, only directories on MDT0000 can contain directories that are not on
the same MDT.  However, if "mdt.*.enable_remote_dir" is set non-zero on an MDT
then it will allow creating remote directories that have parents other than
MDT0000. This is restricted to avoid creating directory trees that have
intermediate path components on a series different MDTs and become unavailable
if any of the intermediate MDTs are offline.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B $ lfs setdirstripe -i 1 /mnt/lustre/dir1
This creates a remote directory on MDT1.
.SH AVAILABILITY
The lfs setdirstripe command is part of the Lustre filesystem.
Note that the DNE2 in Cray b2_7 (normally accessed with setdirstripe) is
disabled.  This means the options -c, -t, -d, and -D are not available.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lfs (1),
.BR lfs-getdirstripe (1),
.BR lfs-setstripe (1),
.BR lustre (7)
